[images guide] New page for docs (#1162)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/images.md

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Images
description: Learn how to use images in Astro.
i18nReady: true
setup: |
  import Since from '../../../components/Since.astro';
---
Astro provides several ways for you to use images inside of your projects.

### `.astro` files

Astro uses standard HTML `<img>` or JSX `<img />` elements to display images within your `.astro` files. 

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import rocket from './images/rocket.svg';
---
<img src="https://astro.build/assets/press/full-logo-light.png" alt="Astro">
<img src="/stars.png" alt="A starry night sky."> <!-- stored in public -->

> <img src="./images/astronaut.jpg" alt="An astronaut."> <!-- stored in src -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="./images/astronaut.jpg" alt="An astronaut."> <!-- relative path from file -->
```

Author: I changed these to reflect the actual location of the file. Tell me what you think!

<img src={rocket} alt="A rocketship in space."/>
```

### .`md` and `.mdx` files

You can use standard Markdown `![]()` syntax in your `.md` and `.mdx` files, or HTML (in Markdown) or JSX (in MDX) if preferred. 

```md
// src/pages/post-1.md
![An astronaut on the moon.](./images/astronaut.png)
<img src="/stars.png" alt="A starry night sky.">
```

```mdx
// src/pages/post-2.mdx
---
image: './images/rocket.svg'
---

> ![An astronaut on the moon.](./images/astronaut.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An astronaut on the moon.](/images/astronaut.png) <!-- stored in public -->
```

Author: Ooh, I meant for the first one to be a relative path, just like in the `.md` example, but do you think it's a better example of the difference if we now make this one an image in `public/`? To show that you can use that syntax for public images, too? @kevinzunigacuellar 

If so, then I'd proabably also change the `stars` one to now be the relative path. So, show them as opposites, to make it clear that it's not like one syntax is for public and the other is not.

Reviewer: @sarah11918, I don't think relative paths work for default image notation `![]()`. I tried this using rc-3 yesterday in a `.mdx` file.

Author: @kevinzunigacuellar I have this working for me, with an image in public, accessing with the ![]() notation! Do you mind trying again? I appear to be on rc-3 as well...

Reviewer: I see my mistake, I thought the image was relative to the file not to `src` 😅

Author: You might have been on to something after all! I'm doing more testing, and also in build mode... So, it's great you brought this to my attention!

```

### MDX

In `.mdx` files, `<Image />` and `<Picture />` can access your image `src` through imports and exports, or using frontmatter!

```mdx
---
// src/pages/index.mdx
hero
  image: "./images/astronaut"
  alt: "An astronaut in a spacesuit."
---
import { Image, Picture } from '@astrojs/image/component';
import rocket from '../assets/rocket.png';
export const galaxy = 'https://astro.build/assets/galaxy.jpg'

<Image src={import('../assets/logo.png')} alt="Astro"/>
<Image src={rocket} width={300} alt="Spaceship approaching the moon.">
<Picture src={galaxy} width={200} aspectRatio={16/9} alt="Outer space." />
<Picture src={frontmatter.hero.image} alt="{frontmatter.hero.alt}" />
```

## Using Images from a CMS or CDN

Image CDNs work with Astro! Use their URL as an image’s `src` attribute as you would when writing HTML.

Alternatively, if the CDN provides a Node.js SDK, you can use that in your project. For example, [Cloudinary’s SDK](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/node_integration) can generate the img tag with the appropriate src for you.

## Community Integrations

> In addition to the official [`@astrojs/image`](/en/integrations-guide/image) integration, there are several third-party [community image integrations](https://astro.build/integrations/css+ui/?q=image) for optimizing and working with images in your Astro project.

Author: ```suggestion
In addition to the official [`@astrojs/image`](/en/integrations-guide/image/) integration, there are several third-party [community image integrations](https://astro.build/integrations/css+ui/?q=image) for optimizing and working with images in your Astro project.
```

> In addition to the official [`@astrojs/image`](/en/integrations-guide/image/) integration, there are several third-party [community image integrations](https://astro.build/integrations/css+ui/?q=image) for optimizing and working with images in your Astro project.

Author: ```suggestion
In addition to the official [`@astrojs/image`](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/) integration, there are several third-party [community image integrations](https://astro.build/integrations/css+ui/?q=image) for optimizing and working with images in your Astro project.
```

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Images
description: Learn how to use images in Astro.
i18nReady: true
setup: |
  import Since from '../../../components/Since.astro';
---
Astro provides several ways for you to use images inside of your projects.

### In `.astro` files

> Astro uses standard HTML `<img>` or JSX `<img />` elements to display images within your `.astro` files. 

Reviewer 2: > Astro uses standard HTML <img> or JSX <img /> elements

Personal taste perhaps, but I don't think it's needed to say "the HTML or JSX img tag". We generally align ourselves toward being HTML first

Author: Noted, thanks! I can change the wording to just say HTML. I just know that if I DON'T put both tags, with and without the closing slash, someone's gonna PR it in there because "it works." 😅

> Astro uses standard HTML `<img>` or JSX `<img />` elements to display images within your `.astro` files. 

Author: ```suggestion
Astro uses standard HTML `<img>` or `<img />` elements to display images within your `.astro` files. 
```

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Images
description: Learn how to use images in Astro.
i18nReady: true
setup: |
  import Since from '../../../components/Since.astro';
---
Astro provides several ways for you to use images on your site, whether they are stored locally inside your project, linked to remotely, or stored in a CMS or CDN!

### In `.astro` files

Astro uses standard HTML `<img>` or `<img />` elements to display images within your `.astro` files. All HTML image attributes are supported.

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import rocket from './images/rocket.svg';
---
<img src="https://astro.build/assets/logo.png" width="25" alt="Astro">
<img src="/assets/stars.png" alt="A starry night sky."> <!-- public/assets/stars.png -->

> <img src="./images/astronaut.jpg" alt="An astronaut"> <!-- src/images/astronaut.jpg -->

Reviewer 3: (N.B. already discussed on Discord using images in `src` like this — decision made to remove.)

<img src={rocket} alt="A rocketship in space."/> <!-- src/images/rocket.svg -->
```

### In .`md` and `.mdx` files

You can use standard Markdown `![]()` syntax in your `.md` and `.mdx` files. You can also use HTML `<img>`(in Markdown) or JSX `<img />` (in MDX) if preferred.

```md
// src/pages/post-1.md

<!-- src/images/astronaut.jpg -->
![An astronaut](./images/astronaut.png)
<img src="./images/astronaut.jpg" alt="An astronaut">

 <!-- public/assets/stars.png -->
![A starry night sky.](/assets/stars.png)
<img src="/assets/stars.png" alt="A starry night sky.">

![Astro](https://astro.build/assets/logo.png)
```

```mdx
// src/pages/post-2.mdx
---
image: './images/rocket.svg'
---

<!-- src/images/astronaut.jpg -->
![An astronaut](./images/astronaut.png)
<img src="./images/astronaut.jpg" alt="An astronaut" />

<!-- public/assets/stars.png -->
![A starry night sky.](/assets/stars.png)
<img src="/assets/stars.png" alt="A starry night sky." />

<img src={frontmatter.image} alt="A rocketship in space." />

![Astro](https://astro.build/assets/logo.png)
```

### In UI Framework Components

> In a [UI framework component](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/), write your images as appropriate for its own syntax.

Reviewer 3: Not totally happy with my suggestion, but “its own syntax” made me less happy 😅 

```suggestion
In a [UI framework component](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/), write your images as appropriate for that framework’s syntax.
```

Author: Yeah, I'll think on this. I started with "native language" and eventually ended here... I don't think it's "done" either.  😅

## Where to keep images

### `src/`
Your images kept in `src/` can be imported and used by other components, and will be processed during Astro's build process. These images are referenced **by relative [file path](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/file-paths)**. 

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro

// Access images in `src/images/`
---
<img src="../images/logo.png" />

> ```

Reviewer 3: Already discussed on Discord: worth double checking this works on build as well as dev

### `public/`

> The `public/` directory is for files and assets that do not need to be processed during Astro’s build process. Images stored here will be copied into the build folder untouched. These are referenced **relative to the public folder**.

Reviewer 3: I included this link in the font guides as we do have a detailed explanation of `public` on the project structure page.

```suggestion
The [`public/` directory](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/#public) is for files and assets that do not need to be processed during Astro’s build process. Images stored here will be copied into the build folder untouched. These are referenced **relative to the public folder**.
```

<!-- Remote image on another server -->
![Astro](https://astro.build/assets/logo.png)
<img src="https://astro.build/assets/logo.png" width="25" alt="Astro">
```

### In `.mdx` files

You can use standard Markdown `![]()` syntax or  JSX `<img />` tags in your `.mxd` files. Just like Markdown files, MDX files can display images from your `public/` folder or remote servers. They can also import and use images located in your project's `src` directory, like Astro components.

```mdx
// src/pages/post-1.md

import rocket from '../images/rocket.svg';

# My MDX Page

// Local image stored at src/images/rocket.svg
<img src={rocket} alt="A rocketship in space."/>

// Local image stored at public/assets/stars.png
![A starry night sky.](/assets/stars.png)
<img src="/assets/stars.png" alt="A starry night sky." />

// Remote image on another server
![Astro](https://astro.build/assets/logo.png)
<img src="https://astro.build/assets/logo.png" width="25" alt="Astro" />
```

### In UI Framework Components

When adding images in a [UI framework component](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/) (e.g React, Svelte), use the image syntax appropriate for that particular component's framework.

> ## Where to keep images
> 
> ### `src/`
> Your images kept in `src/` can be used by other components by first importing them from a **relative file path** and then using the import as the image's `src` attribute.

Author: ```suggestion
## Where to store images

### `src/`
Your images stored in `src/` can be used by other components by first importing them from a **relative file path** or [import alias](/en/guides/aliases/) and then using the import as the image's `src` attribute. 
```

> Your images kept in `src/` can be imported and used by other components, and will be processed during Astro's build process. These images are imported from a **relative [file path](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/file-paths)** and the image's `src` attribute should refer to the import. 

Reviewer 4: This sentence sounded better to me without the comma.
```suggestion
Your images kept in `src/` can be imported and used by other components and will be processed during Astro's build process. These images are imported from a **relative [file path](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/file-paths)** and the image's `src` attribute should refer to the import. 
```
Alternatively, maybe we could simplify the sentence? What makes the reading flow weird to me is using `and` two times in the same sentence. I think we don't need to say "can be imported and used", I would infer that I need to import it somehow and the next sentence talks exactly about importing so I think it's safe to just remove it.

```suggestion
Your images kept in `src/` can be used by other components and will be processed during Astro's build process. These images are imported from a **relative [file path](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/file-paths)** and the image's `src` attribute should refer to the import. 
```

Author: Great! Both you and @hippotastic called out this paragraph, so excellent, I will take another pass at this one with both your feedback!

> Your images kept in `src/` can be imported and used by other components, and will be processed during Astro's build process. These images are imported from a **relative [file path](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/file-paths)** and the image's `src` attribute should refer to the import. 

Author: reworded this also based on @Yan-Thomas' feedback, so we'll all double-check the new wording and see what we think!

> Your images kept in `src/` can be imported and used by other components, and will be processed during Astro's build process. These images are imported from a **relative [file path](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html/file-paths)** and the image's `src` attribute should refer to the import. 

Author: oops, fixed the one, but not theimport aliases... good call @hippotastic ... that'll be next.

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro

// Access images in `public/images/`
---
<img src="/images/logo.png" />
```

## Astro's Image Integration

:::caution
When you install the `@astrojs/image` integration, `.astro` files will no longer be able to use standard HTML `<img>` tags for images located in your project `src`. All local images must use the integration components instead.

See the [image integration guide](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/) for more notes about this new, experimental feature!
:::

Astro's official image integration provides two different Astro components for rendering optimized images: `<Image />` and `<Picture />`.

After [installing the integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/#installation), you can import and use these two components wherever you can use Astro components, including `.mdx` files!

:::note
Astro's `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components cannot be used with images in your `public/` folder. Use standard HTML or Markdown image syntax instead.
:::

### `<Image />`

> Astro's [`<Image />` component](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/#image-) allows you to optimize a single image and specify width, height and/or aspect ratio. You can even transform your image to a particular output format, which can be used to avoid checking the file type of remote images. 

Reviewer 4: Not sure because of `and/or`, but maybe we are missing a serial comma here?
```suggestion
Astro's [`<Image />` component](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/#image-) allows you to optimize a single image and specify width, height, and/or aspect ratio. You can even transform your image to a particular output format, which can be used to avoid checking the file type of remote images. 
```

#### Remote Images

Remote images require a full URL as the image `src`. Also, you must either provide `width` and `height`, or one of the dimensions plus the required `aspectRatio` to the `<Image />` component.

#### Examples

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import { Image } from '@astrojs/image/components';
import localImage from '../assets/local.png';
const imageUrl = 'https://astro.build/assets/logo.png';
---

// optimized local image, keeping the original width, height, and image format
<Image src={localImage} />

// height will be recalculated to match the original (local only) or specified aspect ratio
<Image src={localImage} width={300} />
<Image src={imageUrl} width={300} aspectRatio={16/9} />

// cropping to a specific width and height
<Image src={localImage} width={300} height={600} />
<Image src={imageUrl} width={544} height={184} />

// cropping to a specific aspect ratio and converting to an avif format
<Image src={localImage} aspectRatio="16:9" format="avif" />
<Image src={imageUrl} height={200} aspectRatio="16:9" format="avif" />

// local image imports can also be inlined directly
<Image src={import('../assets/local.png')} />
```

### `<Picture /> `

> Astro's [`<Picture />` component](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/#picture-) can be used to provide responsive images on your site, including multiple image sizes, formats and layouts. You can let the user's browser choose appropriate image sizes, resolutions and file types based on factors like screen size and bandwidth. Or, you can specify rules that the browser must follow based on media queries. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Astro's [`<Picture />` component](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/#picture-) can be used to provide responsive images on your site, including multiple image sizes, formats, and layouts. You can let the user's browser choose appropriate image sizes, resolutions, and file types based on factors like screen size and bandwidth. Or, you can specify rules that the browser must follow based on media queries. 
```

In addition to `src`, `widths`, and  `sizes`, `aspectRatio` is also required to ensure the correct `height` can be calculated at build time.

#### Examples

```astro
---
import { Picture } from '@astrojs/image/components';
import localImage from '../assets/localImage.png';
const imageUrl = 'https://www.google.com/images/branding/googlelogo/2x/googlelogo_color_272x92dp.png';
---

// Local image with multiple sizes and formats
<Picture src={localImage} widths={[200, 400, 800]} sizes="(max-width: 800px) 100vw, 800px" formats=['avif', 'jpeg', 'png', 'webp'] alt="My local image" />

// Remote image (aspect ratio is required)
<Picture src={imageUrl} widths={[200, 400, 800]} aspectRatio="4:3" sizes="(max-width: 800px) 100vw, 800px" alt="My remote image" />

// Inlined imports are supported
<Picture src={import("../assets/localImage.png")} widths={[200, 400, 800]} sizes="(max-width: 800px) 100vw, 800px" alt="My local image" />
```

### Using in MDX

In `.mdx` files, `<Image />` and `<Picture />` can receive your image `src` through imports and exports.

```mdx
// src/pages/index.mdx

import { Image, Picture } from '@astrojs/image/component';
import rocket from '../assets/rocket.png';

> export const galaxy = 'https://astro.build/assets/galaxy.jpg'

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
export const galaxy = 'https://astro.build/assets/galaxy.jpg';
```
Consistency suggestion :)

<Image src={import('../assets/logo.png')} alt="Astro"/>
<Image src={rocket} width={300} alt="Spaceship approaching the moon.">
<Picture src={rocket} widths=[{200, 400, 800}] sizes="(max-width: 800px) 100vw, 800px" alt="A rocket blasting off." />
<Picture src={galaxy} widths=[{200, 400, 800}] aspectRatio={16/9} sizes="(max-width: 800px) 100vw, 800px" alt="Outer space." />
```

## Using Images from a CMS or CDN

Image CDNs work with Astro. Use their URL as an image’s `src` attribute as you would when writing HTML or JSX, or as a remote image's `src` attribute with the `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components.

> Alternatively, if the CDN provides a Node.js SDK, you can use that in your project. For example, [Cloudinary’s SDK](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/node_integration) can generate the `<img>` tag with the appropriate src for you.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if the CDN provides a Node.js SDK, you can use that in your project. For example, [Cloudinary’s SDK](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/node_integration) can generate the `<img>` tag with the appropriate `src` for you.
```
